hi welcome to Mary cooks would you
believe I've been researching for over
an hour and a half one particular recipe
that I want to do today and this is a
recipe that my mother taught me and my
family all does is traditional recipe in
our family it's pasta fagioli
which means beings and pasta pasta
beings and the Italian way of saying it
is pasta fagioli
I got on the Internet I've got all my my
favorite cookbooks and I've been
researching different recipes for pasta
fagioli and you wouldn't believe how
many recipes there are how many versions
of this particular dish so today what I
like to do is I like to show you my
mother's version of pasta fagioli so
let's get into the kitchen and let's get
this recipe takes few ingredients in
fact it's a very inexpensive meal to
make for the family very economical I
think in these times I'd say probably it
takes maybe about five ingredients the
main ingredients naturally the two main
ingredients are going to be our beans
and our pasta and the beans we're going
to use our canna lily beans a white
kidney bean and the pasta is a tiny
little too tight pasta called Italy me
so that's a posture and that's a beans
then the other ingredients are crushed
tomatoes parsley basil and Italian you
always need your garlic salt and pepper
and our seasoning will be dry oregano
dried basil and if you notice I buy
large size basil and oregano since I use
those so much of my cooking and that's
another economical way of saving money
by
as much as I do
well we're going to do first we're going
to drain the beans and let me explain
something about the beans this is one
size can this is twenty nine point five
ounce can this is another size can buy
another company and this is 15.5 ounces
if you use the 15.5 ounces only two cans
I'm just using one can of the twenty
nine point five ounces so we want to
drain the beans and we want to also
rinse them there's a lot of salt on the
beans rain let that sit on the side
we're not gonna use those until much
later I'm going to go ahead and start
chopping up my spices and we'll get back
to you in a second maybe I should put my
glasses on when I'm giving you some
measurements and sizes I made a mistake
this guy scan is 19 ounces and it was
until after I drain them did I realize
that's not going to be enough beans so I
would say 2 cans this side would be what
you would want since I only have this
15.5 I'm gonna use that but I would
recommend pound three ounces two cans of
those let's start now making our sauce
so first we're going to coat the bottom
of our sauce pan with some olive oil I'd
say probably that's a tablespoon of
olive oil let that get hot and I have
that on
ium hi going to add two cloves of garlic
which have been minced
if the fragrance is coming out two cans
of crushed Italian Tomatoes and I found
this particular brand on sale
whenever I see Italian Tomatoes whole
Tomatoes of crushed tomatoes on sale I
stock up so this is my first time using
this particular brand but it's crushed
Italian Tomatoes
these are 28 ounce cans our salt coarse
sea salt sometimes I'll use black pepper
oregano and dried basil two tablespoons
of chopped parsley Italian parsley flat
leaf parsley and two tablespoons of
fresh chopped basil mix that through
well get the pot the sauce to start
coming to a boil and once it does turn
it down to low and let it simmer for
about 15 to 20 minutes we want the
spices to blend in with the tomato sauce
so 15 to 20 minutes should do a good job
of blending the red crushed red pepper
to this if you like or chopped jalapeno
pepper if you like your sauce while this
is simmering simmer 15 to 20 minutes we
stop my water boiling before my pasta
that's the digital mini pasta this is a
one-pound box I'm going to use half of
this so we're going to use half a pound
of ditalini pasta that we'll add to the
sauce when it's ready
during an antigen tomato sauce that's
half a pound it's really neat children
love that shape pasta and now we're
going to add the white kidney beans the
beans are cooked and the pastas cooked
so all we're going to do is just
incorporate all of the flavorings
together some pasta fagioli is very thin
it's very soupy this is where this one
is different this is more like a stupid
you know Harry Caray says stupid for
soup and a stew this is more of a stew
consistency see there that's not very
stupid it's delicious now we're gonna
let this cook simmered I'd say or cook
it on low for about another 10 minutes
to cooperate all of those seasonings
into the beans and the pasta and then
we'll be ready to soak for about 10
minutes and it's ready now as you can
see it's thicker than a soup but it's
still running with the tomatoes I like
to serve it with some grated Parmesan
cheese and crusty Italian roll nice
crusty Italian roll pasta fagioli
Bon Appetit enjoy